README.md, before:

# Ogee

## Introduction

Ogee Arches is a package designed for the Arches platform that implements the Linked.art data model (as recorded on the web, December 2023), provides a complete vocabulary to support that data model and is fully documented with reusable documentation.

Ogee Arches has been created by Getty Digital and Takin.solutions. Its primary aim is to serve as a starter Arches package for projects aiming to use the Linked.art standard and wanting to adopt the Arches Platform. Ogee Arches takes the difficulty out of starting a Linked.art compatible data project using Arches by providing the complete set of models envisioned by Linked.art and setting them up in a ready to use fashion in the Arches Platform.

Ogee Arches is intended to be a starting point for data modelling projects where it can be extended or pruned in order to meet the needs of the data project in question. Getty Digital, moreover, offers the package together with Takin.solutions as an open source resource for any institution or individual to adopt as a way to kick start their semantic data projects. 
Ogee is not a prescription for how all Linked.Art models should look or can work, and not a place where Getty modeling extensions or nuances are tracked nor maintained. The modeling represented here does not include some areas where Getty has extended or deviated from the the Linked.Art, especially as Linked.Art develops as an emerging specifications. 

Note: 

Models are current to the Linked.Art website documentation as of December 2023. Though changes to the Linked.Art schema has and will continue to occur as the community builds towards a 1.0 version of Linked.Art, these models are not guranteed to be updated in tandem. 

## Technical Specifications

- Resource models were originally built for Arches 6.1.0 (https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/stable/6.1.0/releases/6.1.0.md)
- Modeling reflects Linked.Art schema as of December 2023 (https://linked.art/model/). 
- Github package created based on Arches documentation specifications (https://arches.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing/projects-and-packages/#understanding-packages)
- Modeling details and visual examples are available through the Zellij tool, created by Takin.Solutions (https://zellij.pythonanywhere.com/docs/list/apppWYuo1z7E2J7E8?flag=0)
- Sample instance showing models with example data is hosted by Takin.Solutions (http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/index.htm)

## Modeling Examples

### Frida Kahlo Example Set of Records
http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/report/21b1486f-a7f1-400a-9eda-9500d23d7f46

### Getty Data Example Set of Records
[http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/report/8dcc01d5-865b-4b9e-9b13-31a8bdfc68df
](http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/report/e8e03e27-db10-4e0d-b654-3d7e95ed4e59)

Commit message:

Update README.md specified Arches version

README.md, after:

# Ogee

## Introduction

Ogee Arches is a package designed for the Arches platform that implements the Linked.art data model (as recorded on the web, December 2023), provides a complete vocabulary to support that data model and is fully documented with reusable documentation.

Ogee Arches has been created by Getty Digital and Takin.solutions. Its primary aim is to serve as a starter Arches package for projects aiming to use the Linked.art standard and wanting to adopt the Arches Platform. Ogee Arches takes the difficulty out of starting a Linked.art compatible data project using Arches by providing the complete set of models envisioned by Linked.art and setting them up in a ready to use fashion in the Arches Platform.

Ogee Arches is intended to be a starting point for data modelling projects where it can be extended or pruned in order to meet the needs of the data project in question. Getty Digital, moreover, offers the package together with Takin.solutions as an open source resource for any institution or individual to adopt as a way to kick start their semantic data projects. 
Ogee is not a prescription for how all Linked.Art models should look or can work, and not a place where Getty modeling extensions or nuances are tracked nor maintained. The modeling represented here does not include some areas where Getty has extended or deviated from the the Linked.Art, especially as Linked.Art develops as an emerging specifications. 

Note: 

Models are current to the Linked.Art website documentation as of December 2023. Though changes to the Linked.Art schema has and will continue to occur as the community builds towards a 1.0 version of Linked.Art, these models are not guranteed to be updated in tandem. 

## Technical Specifications

- Resource models were originally built for Arches 6.1.0 (https://github.com/archesproject/arches/blob/stable/6.1.0/releases/6.1.0.md)
- In February 2025, this package was upgraded to be compatible with Arches version 7.6.x. Switch to the "v6" branch if you wish to use this package with Arches version 6.
- Modeling reflects Linked.Art schema as of December 2023 (https://linked.art/model/). 
- Github package created based on Arches documentation specifications (https://arches.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing/projects-and-packages/#understanding-packages)
- Modeling details and visual examples are available through the Zellij tool, created by Takin.Solutions (https://zellij.pythonanywhere.com/docs/list/apppWYuo1z7E2J7E8?flag=0)
- Sample instance showing models with example data is hosted by Takin.Solutions (http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/index.htm)

## Modeling Examples

### Frida Kahlo Example Set of Records
http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/report/21b1486f-a7f1-400a-9eda-9500d23d7f46

### Getty Data Example Set of Records
[http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/report/8dcc01d5-865b-4b9e-9b13-31a8bdfc68df
](http://www.thesemantictakin.com:8000/report/e8e03e27-db10-4e0d-b654-3d7e95ed4e59)
